# Subtype Specific and RNA-Seq Based Gene Signatures for the Prediction of Breast Cancer Recurrence
## Abstract
In a fraction of patients with breast cancer, the recurrence after surgery is incurable. Administering systemic chemotherapy can significantly lower the risk of recurrence but with potentially damaging side effects and toxicity. Thus, the accurate prediction of the risk of recurrence becomes critical. In this study, a newly developed classification method based on a permanental process was implemented and applied in predicting the risk of breast cancer recurrence using RNA-Seq gene expression profiles. Five gene signatures defined as the Perma gene signatures were developed for each of the five PAM50 subtypes of breast cancer, including Luminal A, Luminal B, HER2-enriched, Basal-like and Normal-like. Based on the Perma gene signatures, the Perma risk scores associated with the risk of breast cancer recurrence were also developed. In order to estimate the likelihood of recurrence after diagnosis, survival analysis using proportional hazards ratio regression was conducted, and the 5-year and 10-year recurrence-free survival were estimated within each of the five subtypes. To further estimate the risk of recurrence within each subtype, three risk groups: low, intermediate and high were developed in which both the 5-year and 10-year risk of recurrence vary significantly. The Perma gene signatures along with the Perma risk scores provide a practical measure of the risk of breast cancer recurrence, which could contribute to the accurate prognosis of breast cancer and precise assignment of adjuvant chemotherapy, as well as benefit the practice of precision medicine in breast cancer prognostics.
